---
title: L15 - Design that matters
layout: doc
---

# Reflections on building design that matters

I greatly enjoyed Lyel’s lecture and many of his points strongly resonated with me and my personal experience. I am from Burundi, a small country in East Africa. I have always been into computers and programming since my early teens and have always believed in the power of harnessing technology to do good. I believe this is even more true in the developing world, where many communities have yet to embrace a lot of the technologies that are taken for granted in the developed world.

When I came to MIT, I continued to think of ways I could contribute to the development of my community, and in the fall of my junior year, I took a leave and went back to Burundi. What was initially supposed to be a semester-long leave to gain some clarity and direction into what I wanted to do in the long term turned into a couple of years as I decided to invest my time and effort into figuring out how I could use technology and the skills I had developed over the years to build something meaningful for my community. I started a company with a friend of mine and fellow programmer. We knew that many sectors in Burundi could profoundly benefit from digitalizing their operations and we set out to identify problems where our efforts could be best directed.

As any founder will tell you, and as we would soon realize, the entrepreneurial journey is anything but a straight line. Our path toward building a product that solves a real need in the market was fraught with challenges, dead-ends, and quite a few pivots. At the same time, however, there is nothing more rewarding than doing work that you find truly meaningful. That sense of purpose prompted me to work harder than I have ever done in my life. Eventually, we identified event ticketing and fundraising as two areas to focus on. Event ticketing was a natural first start, for two reasons. First, the event planning industry in Burundi is very concentrated, with a handful of players organizing the majority of large events in the country. This made it easy to reach out to the key players in that industry and have discussions with them about some of the challenges they were facing. They also saw a clear case for digitalizing their operations as they struggle to secure and gain visibility into many aspects of their ticketing operations, from fending off fraud during event ticket pre-sale to monitoring ticket sales in real-time, streamlining their check-in process on Event day and facilitating digital payments. Secondly, adding fundraising features to our platform, while potentially even more impactful, was also a more ambitious undertaking and involved some regulatory hurdles that we would be better equipped to clear once we had built the reputation and brand awareness that we hoped to gain from launching the event ticketing feature first. Fast forward to now, a year after launch, and we are the leading ticketing platform in the country, having worked with most of the major event planners in the country, with more relying on our platform for their events as the year comes to an end.

I am very grateful I was able to attend Lyel’s lecture, for several reasons. First of all, this made me realize that there are other people who deeply care about using technology for social impact and the betterment of communities. It’s very easy to feel otherwise and, in my case, I have been told many times that while that’s a noble goal, it’s not a very practical one. To some extent, I do agree. As far as practicality is concerned, the Burundian market is quite small, and it’s not the most technology-friendly environment either. There are many challenges we faced as we built our company that we probably wouldn’t have faced if we had targeted a different, more entrepreneur-friendly market. At the same time, we had to consider the unique realities we were operating in, which meant building a product that could operate in a low-connectivity, heavily cash-based environment and tailor our solution to the needs of the community. To someone strictly going after profits, I am sure there are countless markets they would find more appealing. At the end of the day, however, I think it is a very personal decision about what matters the most to you. In my case, nothing brings me a greater sense of fulfillment and pride than seeing members of my community using a product I built and telling me it brought genuine value to them.

Another thing I found quite enlightening was Lyel’s point on the value of proximity and lived experience. This made me realize that having grown up in Burundi gives me some unique insight into some of the realities, challenges, and opportunities at the center of that community, an insight I can leverage for good.

I love how Lyel concluded by saying that while this journey towards deciding what constitutes value to you and building something that matters is not an easy one, in the end, it can lead to building something beautiful, something you’re proud of. I couldn’t agree more. Thank you for taking the time to share those insights with us, Lyel! Looking forward to another talk from you on building design that matters!
