---
title: L16 - Project Pitches Blog
layout: doc
---

# Reply to Emily Chen's blog on M2G2's project

Thank you for sharing your [thoughts](https://emilymchen.github.io/portfolio-emilychen/blogs/blog2.html) on our endangered language preservation project, Emily! It was a pleasure reading your blog and I thought I’d share my thoughts on some of the observations and suggestions you make in your blog.

I like how you emphasize the importance of considering the various direct stakeholders of the app in your blog. During our research, we realized that communities with endangered languages often face challenges in transmitting their linguistic heritage from the older generations to the younger ones and typically the majority of the few remaining speakers tend to be older. So in the context of a language preservation app that empowers those communities to lead their preservation efforts, the older generation will be the one contributing the most to documentation efforts and therefore, we must build such an app in a way that makes the documentation experience as easy as possible and accounts for the fact that older speakers might not be as comfortable with technology as younger ones. We have also explored ways to make the learning experience for younger members of the community as engaging and fun as possible and I love some of the suggestions you make in that direction.

Pronunciation is another aspect you write about in your blog. I think it is a very important topic because we found in our research and interviews that pronunciation is an aspect that young learners in communities with endangered languages struggle with in their efforts to learn and speak their language. As a result, we chose to make pronunciation a core feature of our app, enabling users to not only document the language by contributing word entries to a collaborative dictionary but also contribute pronunciation recordings to facilitate learning.

Another great point you make in your blog is the profound link between language and culture. Language is the medium through which cultural heritage is transmitted from one generation to the next, and that is even more the case in communities with endangered languages where a lot of the time, culture is transmitted orally. While enabling the documentation of as many aspects of culture as possible in our app would be of great value, we realized that this would not be very realistic within the time constraints of the project. We decided, however, to enable users to create and share interactive quizzes related to their language and culture in the app, in addition to adding entries to the collaborative dictionary, in an attempt to go beyond just documenting words and facilitate the transmission of cultural heritage in the app.

Accessibility is another point you talk about, especially for users with limited internet connectivity or older devices. We discussed this concern as we were working on our app and explored ways we could design the app in such a way that people with limited internet access could still benefit from the app. At the same time, we want to make sure we can realistically achieve that goal within the time constraints of this class. One idea we contemplated would be to architect our app such that some of its core functionalities like the collaborative dictionary could incorporate some local caching functionality. When a user gets access to the Internet, dictionary entries could be persisted on their device, enabling them to still be able to browse the dictionary when they no longer have internet connectivity.

Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts about our project! I am sure this will prove very useful as we build our app and spur further discussion in our team going forward.
